# Angular Notes Fragment

## Basic Modifications

The [tutorial](https://angular.io/tutorial/first-app) recommends changing

1. The metadata title, used in browser tab names and more
   In `index.html`, change the `<title>` tag (inside head).

1. The HTML first shown by the app in `app.component.html` is changed to a
   simple `<h1>` for now.

## Components

Angular is made up of building blocks called **Components**.

Here are some properties that a component can have

* `selector`, define name used for the templates.

* `standalone`, describe the component requires a NgModule.

* `imports`, describe component's dependencies.

* `template`, define the component's HTML.
  Use `templateUrl` to point to a HTML file directly.

* `styles`, define the style file (typically `.css` or `.scss`)
  Use `styleUrls` to point to a style file directly.

We can create a new component, named `NAME` with

```bash
ng generate component NAME
```

This will create the HTML, TypeScript, style file and test file (identified
by the `.spec.ts` file extension).

Declarations in `app.module.ts` are also updated with this component.

Several options to modify this behaviour are available (see help file), notably

* `--standalone`, ignores the declarations update step in `app.module.ts`.

* `--inline-template`, adds an inline template instead of `NAME.component.html`.

* `--skip-tests`, flag to not include `NAME.component.spec.ts` for e2e tests.

## Interfaces

In TypeScript, a useful way to group and pass data is using an **interface**,

```ts
// Defines the interface
interface Person {
  name: string;
  age: number;
}

// Creates an instance of the interface
let me: Person = {name:"Josh", age:26}

// A function using the object
function greet(person: Person) {
  console.log("Hello " + person.name);
}

greet(me)
```

Conveniently, this can be generated by Angular.

```bash
ng generate interface person
```

Once the data structure is defined in TypeScript code, we can create new
instances of these abstract objects (assuming we have imported the interface).

```ts
person1: Person = {name:"Josh", age:26}
```

## Decorators

Extend these notes but we see an input decorator at the top of some component
to allow sharing of data from parent to child component.

For example, consider

```ts
export class HousingLocationComponent {
  @Input() housingLocation!: HousingLocation;
}
```

Here, the `HousingLocation` interface is defined elsewhere and imported.

Then define a variable of the `HousingLocationComponent` class to be an
instance of this interface.

The non-null assertion operator, `!`, tells the TS compiler that the value of
this property won't be null or undefined.


----

Notes becoming distraction.

Writing a point per commit and will aim to summarise later.

#### (d75fa7d) Extended to allow multiple `EducationFields`

* Use of `ngFor` with extra keywords like index, even, odd.

* Dymanic class setting with `[class]="variable"` instead of `class="string-as-is`.

* Need for getter method,
  ```ts
  get sideSpecificDivClass() {
    return "timeline-block-" + (this.isLeftSided ? "left" : "right");
  }
  ```
